---
layout: post
date: 2024-11-16 11:00 UTC
title: "Very good"
image: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyleboas/images/main/uploads/2024/11/14/Image-14Nov2024_16:21:57.png"
---

My writing has been “very good” but is it “remarkable”? I’m not sure. That is something I want to change after giving it a lot of thought while I was recovering from surgery.

<!---more--->

At least once a year since 2007, sometimes twice or three times, I watch this TEDTalk on [“How to get your ideas to spread” by Seth Godin](https://youtu.be/xBIVlM435Zg?si=tFFfcfZr5G_8YYti). You will learn something new every time you watch it. It is a timeless piece of marketing gold.

The thing I learned this year from watching was that most of my writing has been “very good." Being “very good,” in the words of Seth, is considered to be just as bad as being “average."

I want my writing to be “remarkable,” or worth making a remark about. Worth sharing with a friend.

There has been a mass migration from X, formerly Twitter, to another social media website called Bluesky. You can follow the Tactics Journal at [@tacticsjournal.com](https://bsky.app/profile/tacticsjournal.com). I'm sure there is a lot of worry amongst people that create content online about this change. They want people to see what they are making.

Everyone wants clicks. Everyone wants attention. Everyone wants followers. But the one thing I do is that I never beg.

If I am not remarkable, my ideas won't spread. The problem isn't 'how can I be more effective at bothering people,' the problem lies in what I am making. Once I gain permission from one person, then two, then ten, they'll share it with their friends, and their friends will share it with their friends.

I'd consider certain posts to be worth sharing, and I don't believe that waiting to publish is the answer. I am a firm believer in writing like you talk because it is [the cure for writer's block](https://tacticsjournal.com/2024/08/09/writers-block-is-a-myth/), but is it remarkable?

The neck surgery went more than well, and my recovery is ongoing. That is what I have been thinking about. This is a post to announce I will be going back to posting starting today.