---
layout: post
date: 2023-10-10 08:00 UTC
title: "Case for 6"
---

There's a case to be made for Ruben Dias to play as the 6 for Manchester City, in the absence of Rodri, as he is suspended for the match on the weekend against Arsenal. 

<!---more--->

Rodri plays both simple passes and more cutting passes that dictates where play will go. His favorite pass is that switch from a half-space out to the wing. 

He is a minimalist on the ball.

He makes minimal movements to help him read play better. He stays on his feet and jogs from open space to space. When is the last time you've seen Rodri attempt a sliding tackle? He knows when to force a pass and when to pause. He's never rushed and is confident. Back straight and you can sense he knows exactly what he wants to do with the ball when he gets it.

When Manchester City played Wolves, the only player that stepped up out of shadows and displayed these same traits was center-back Ruben Dias. 

Mateo Kovacic and Mathues Nunes are players that should be playing in the half-spaces. They run at defenses. They don't have that same vision to know when to switch out to shift a defense. They always want to rush things and they're often too direct. 

Kalvin Phillips came on in the 2nd half and attempted to play like Rodri, but he has no confidence. He has had minimal minutes last season and this season. He looks like he's afraid to make a mistake. Cole Palmer looked the same at times when he came on last season. Timid and worried that he'd be the reason the team lost possession. The only way to fix this is to play them. 

Ruben Dias stepped forward and when he got the ball he knew where it had to be to help open Wolves up. Sure, he's more stiff and not as coordinated as Rodri, but he has sat behind him so much he knows what is required. 

I'd love to see a back-line of 