---
layout: post
date: 2023-11-04 08:00 UTC
title: "Boss"
categories:
- "Premier League"
tags:
- "Tottenham"
image: "https://i.imgur.com/axyizSk.jpg"
---

Ange Postecoglou on spending big in the transfer market and squad building:

<!---more--->

> "I’ve always said I’ve never felt it is about just spending money. That’s been proved time and time again. Yeah, look if you get it all right, then you’ve got a pretty strong case, but there’s always a limit to every team. You can’t have 24 world-class players. That will never work. It doesn’t work; it's been proven. 
>  
> It's about having a squad that’s balanced. Guys that are committed to a cause. Guys that may not play every game, but every time they play, they are going to make a huge impact for you because they buy into what you are trying to build. Just spending endless money to get the best players has been proven time and time again not to be the answer. 
>  
> The answer is to get the right chemistry in your team, in your squad, to have 24 players committed to one cause. I don’t think you can do that if you just get the 24 best players in the world. That’s a headache I definitely don’t want." 

This applies to many teams. The main one that comes to mind is Chelsea, Tottenham's next opponent on Monday. Players know when they should be starting.

[The Standard](https://www.standard.co.uk/sport/football/tottenham-ange-postecoglou-spurs-revolution-b1116086.html):

> “Postecoglou is also experimenting in training and has adopted an NFL-style approach to his coaches, who are all younger men to bridge the generation gap with the squad. Wells and Mile Jedinak look after the defensive side, Mason is responsible for attacking, and Chris Davies oversees the sessions.
>  
> During the week, it is not uncommon for the squad to hear relatively little from Postecoglou, who also leaves his staff to lead some meetings so the players do not get bored of the same voice and tends to take a backseat during the sessions.
>  
> Unlike his predecessors Mauricio Pochettino or Jose Mourinho, Postecoglou, therefore, does not dominate the training ground, but there is no doubt that he is already the most important person at the club.”

All I can imagine is Ange in an oversized chair with a fire going, players coming into his office to visit him like he's the godfather. This dynamic is interesting. 

Most managers are super hands-on, but this approach allows things to stay fresh. Players are never hearing one voice. Nothing is repetitive.